---
layout: default
title: Forms of Communication
category: process
permalink: "/process/communication"
---

# {{ page.title }}

## In person

Face-to-face interactions allow for follow-up questions to
be easily asked. This helps both parties ensure the issue
is 100% resolved before both parties step away. If a
teammate's lamp by their desk is off, do not bother them.
Instead, try your best to ask another teammate, or wait
until they become available.

## Slack

General purpose chat, best place to ping others for a quick
response. In general, if you are working you should be
available on Slack.

## Weekly meeting

We hold our weekly meeting Wednesdays at 3PM, Monday
through Friday. This is where we share what we are up to
during the week, what we've accomplished, and what's
holding us back. It is also an excellent time to coordinate
for some help on what you're working on.

## Trello

This is the best place to note down requirement-related
information like feature requests and bugs. All Trello
cards involving repos should have PRs attached when
possible.

## Github PR

This is a great place to talk about the implementation
details of a feature. Think of pull requests as a
discussion, not merely a checkpoint on the pathway to
deploying code (see [Code Review to the left](/process/code-review)).

Each PR must be approved by a project manager (most likely
Tim). When submitting a PR, do your best to make sure your
manager is as confident in the code as if he had written it
himself when delivering a feature to the clients.
Incomplete features fall on the manager, which ultimately
fall back on us. Do what you can for their success.

## Text

Although it might not be totally professional at other
places, communication is key to the success of every team
and will always be that way. We have fun here. Send the
memes.
